So in the last lecture, we added a whole bunch of code and still we can't see our own option but that's
only because one function, one method in our class here where we also have the update method is missing,
let's add this method. I'll add it below this update method,
so below here. There I'll add a new public method which is called and the name is important
enumerateObjectInstances.
This will receive options of type
enumerate visual object instance options, a very short name but basically that means that gives us
all these options we set
and with that, we have a method which will be executed by Power BI which should return a visual object
instance enumeration.
And whilst these are all very long names, what this will by the end do is it will extract the data
the user might set up and therefore enable these buttons in the first place and pass that into,
by Power BI so to say, so that Power BI can then give them to us, so that the code where we check for the
existence, where we check with the get option value here, if the enableAxis is set, where we try
to access the objects, so that this is actually populated.
We need to add this method so that Power BI populates this for us in the metadata of our data view.
So what goes into this method then? Well we have an object name here, that is on our options,
the object name. We call or Power BI calls this method for each option we may configure and executes it
on it.
So this forEach option is executed for each option, so that is here,
in our case only one option but it would be executed if we had more than one too.
So for enableAxis, this would be enableAxis here basically. Then we have our object enumeration
which is a visual object instance or an array of such instances
and that's an empty array at the beginning.
That basically is the array of our objects you could say.
Now I want to switch my object name and
keep in mind this would be executed more often than once, so if you have multiple possible settings you
set up in the capabilities.json file, you need multiple cases in this switch statement.
I only, whoops, let me type here please,
I only need one case and that is enableAxis because that is the only option we defined
and that's a normal switch case statement here
and that of course is object name here, not just the object.
So if we have the case that it's enableAxis, then I want to push that onto my object enumeration, so onto
the array of all objects which in the end is then available in the metadata where we try to access it. I'll
call push here therefore, push a Javascript object on that
and this Javascript object I push here should have an object name property and here,
this is simply the object named we retrieved. It also should have a properties property, that is a Javascript
object where we will have a show property
in our case since we're in the enableAxis case and this will be our bar chart settings, enableAxis
show,
so what we retrieve there. Now selector should be null, that is the selector which identifies our object,
now interesting to us here
and with that, Power BI now is aware of our options and able to do something on each option.
Now with this in place, after our switch statement, I can return this object enumeration array.
So this array of all our objects in our Power BI is aware of it and our code can be aware of it.
Now with this if we save that and go back to our bar chart and reload it and reload that here,
so switch to another tab and then back, you see enableAxis here
and now if you switch this, you see the axis is shown or hidden depending on your setting.
So this is how you added your own setting
and of course you can go much more complex than this, this is just to get you started.